Hoping that the battery is still up.
Today is the 11th of June, Thursday, and have the pleasure of being at Cala Vista and talking to Les Appelt, one of the most generous, thoughtful Aggies of all time.
Les, why did you attend A&M in the first place?
Why there?
Probably two reasons.
My brother had attended A&M and was a very devoted Aggie.
He was several years ahead of me.
And the other was probably largely economic.
At that time Texas A&M was probably the least costly major college to attend.
My economics in my first two years at A&M were covered by the savings I had made by staying out of college for two years.
I worked in a law office in Hallisville and then due to some skills I had with a marching computer,
what they called it that time, which was simply a fast-moving air machine.
I computed acreages for the AAA program and I managed to save the magnificent sum of about six or seven hundred dollars in two years working.
Weldon, that's my brother, had done a
volunteer and with that connection I was one of the very few freshmen that were given a job as a Meso waiter.
That paid probably about twenty-five, twenty-six dollars a month and the
fee for room and board and laundry was about 29 if I remember it at that time.
I don't recall just what I did in my freshman year, but I kept track of what I did in my sophomore year and it cost me 350 dollars to go to school in my sophomore year.
That's all the cash that I spent.
Plus the fact that
My mother and dad would write me a letter every week and enclose a crystal bill in it, which cost him spending money.
And greater than not, I even saved money on that.
Now you entered as a freshman in the fall of... I entered in 1937.
Fall of 36, I guess.
Fall of 36.
Class of 37.
Graduated in 40-year-old.
So, okay.
You had visited the campus a number of times before enrolling.
Several times.
When you went to enroll, how did you get there?
On the train, the bus?
No, a lot of folks took me, I think at that time, the dad had a
a Dodge Touring car and they took me out and loaded all my few possessions in the back seat.
What did you take with you in terms of clothing and supplies?
See at that time uniforms were furnished.
So I took I suppose
Mostly underwear and maybe my toothbrush and toilet items and a safe derasure.
We traveled pretty light.
In fact, it was so inconsequential that I don't remember what I did.
Describe, if you can, how you were received.
How did you get in a dormitory, get in a unit, get enrolled?
Well, memory's not really too good on that except that the dormitory assignment had been made and I knew where to go and where to unload and of course the freshmen were greeted by the sophomores
who immediately began giving us instructions in campusology.
And there for a number of days, of course, there's no way a freshman could do anything right.
So, I'm a freshman.
The fact that I had this job in this hole,
caused some confusion among our sophomores and our company, which was Company E. And we were, luckily, we were in the brand new Baltimore Hall dormitory, which was fortunate for me to just directly cross the street from Old Subisa Hall.
The fact that I had a good vessel exempted me from marching in with the outfit which annoyed the sophomores no end.
So it turned out that about once a month they would have a special session for me.
And at that time it would commonly known as ass tears.
So they'd all sit around and remind me of all my transgressions.
I haven't been fortunate enough to have a job in Nessau to show you how far the university progressed.
The first two ramps in Walton Hall, A and B, were reserved for football teams.
And that was in the years when we had John Kimbrough and Ralph and company.
And so we got all the freshmen got to know all the football players real good.
And I think they stayed in there my freshman, sophomore year and I think they got some other facilities for them.
But it was a whole lot different from the facilities we now have.
Can you describe a typical dormitory room at that time?
How was it furnished?
How big was it?
What did you all have in it?
Typical there was the two rooms with a shower and baths.
The lavatory was in the room.
So it was just basically the showers.
The floors were concrete.
It had the special texture on it.
The rhubarb we just plastered and painted.
And there was a double bunk beds in each room.
So each room had two people.
The size of the room, I'd say, mm-hmm.
There was room for rain rooms.
That's where we could have two desks.
And I'd say the room was about 10 by 12.
So no rug, no curtains?
Not, if we brought in anything like that, we'd have to do that ourselves.
Describe the campus physically when you arrived.
What was there?
Well, I feel like there was quite a bit of space between what's now known as the Japanese building.
And the old main door, the library was there.
They had a true library in that big building.
Across the street from what's now the ladies, was a building.
that was used in the animal hood loop department, possibly for study or demonstration.
It had some lots there and they stored hay in it and they had mangers there where they feed these animals.
I remember that very, very, very well because shortly after
All the freshmen came in and I think maybe a day or two before actually school started, they aired all the freshmen out.
Now describe airing out the freshmen.
Airing out the freshmen is just telling them that they just literally chased you out of your room and posted
sophomores there to keep you coming back in and then all the sophomores on campus started hunting down the freshmen being and they caught most of them and they had long sessions with them usually with the freshmen ending up being accused of being
uncooperative or say-say or whatever in order to be assessed the punishments all the way from using the board on to push-ups and miscellaneous other indignities.
I had noticed this building I was picking up that Adam Huckley had, so when they aired me out,
took a circuitous route and beat it down there at high speed.
I spent the night in one of the mangers with a nice soft hay cushion under me and actually even though all the husbands were going around, I actually fell asleep.
And the sophomore did come through there but I had a whole bunch of hay over me.
And I survived that night very well.
I still remember that building.
But right now I think the building is probably Teague building was on top of that site.
Those big open areas.
on the east side of the campus that now are the golf course and the bonfire area, what were... Drill fields.
Were those used for drill fields then?
Well, not so much for either.
The drill field that was used most was the one between the library and the Jack Williams building.
That was a huge drill field there.
And that would have been just over to the north of where there's small drill fields.
The area where the golf course is, and on both sides of the road leading in the main building, we use for various sundry military science projects.
The engineers use them largely in mapping.
We do plane table mapping, we do
Lots of engineering activities, demonstrations on bridge building and road building and also on beam missions.
But that area was reserved for military instruction.
How were freshmen treated in general?
for the junior and seniors treated the freshmen quite well.
But they can't have their hands washed because they sought to, the sophomores treated the freshmen abominably.
And any effort whatsoever for a freshman to
exert a predominant attitude was wiped out.
I don't know any freshmen that ever went through that area that didn't accept an inferior position.
I think they've always put insight into negative psychology
And she can't get over work.
How often was the board used?
Not near as often as recruited, but there was no really restriction.
And it was a fair sized piece of wood.
Yeah, some of them were shaved down in baseball bats.
Did you ever get hit by a board when you hadn't done anything?
Oh, absolutely.
Normally, how many licks would there be?
Well, usually, maybe in order of three to five.
And that connection brings up another thing.
The worst experience I had with the board was in my junior year.
There was a tradition that
When you got promoted, and you got sergeant stripes, copper stripes, whatever you got, that they tacked those on.
I was made a tech sergeant with his fire stripes.
And they put those on.
And then three days later, I was promoted to master sergeant.
My contention was that they could put one more stripe on it.
The juniors and seniors had it.
I mean, the seniors had it.
The seniors did this.
The seniors, in all their wisdom, said, no, we have to knock the five off and then put the six on.
So then, in about three or four days, you get all that up, they got 16 licks from each of the seniors.
Most of them were pretty moderate-taps, but there was a fifth-year senior named Kancelowski that was, if you please, a real chicken kid.
The fact is, we finally found him guilty of stealing some earmarks at the end of the semester, and I think we heard him out.
But anyway, he...
didn't really take to me.
There was obvious reason because I guess he knew I detested him.
But at any rate, he made a fatal error.
He hit me low.
And as you know, pretty good sized guy.
And he was one of the shaved down baseball guys.
And
So I pulled the thing, pulled my pants down, and I had stripes across my legs that missed the buttocks.
And so he had to permit me to pop him on it.
I didn't have broke him down his hole.
And blood came in through his pants.
That would, I still recall how satisfied I was about that whole deal.
These are the little things that would occur.
In the, now your outfit was E?
It was E-Engineers.
E-Engineers.
Now the, I wasn't sure that I was going to get to come back the second year of the finances.
There was some doubt about the mess whole job and I don't recall a little details.
But I registered late, and they had formed a new company, and instead of being Walton Hall, that company was in PG Hall, which was an old wood building adjacent to the Walton Hall, down there where the Dooley Battle building was down.
And so we, F-Comp was going on.
That was really a heartbreaker for me at the time.
I couldn't do anything about it.
But it turned out that F Company had got some pretty good juniors and seniors at that time and unusually good bunches.
We had a strong bunch of sophomores.
So far, by the time I was a senior F company, I was back up in the corner ramp closest to the mess hall to me.
And I hadn't selected as, it happened, we sent a terminal to command engineer regiment.
So, F company, I really was a company, High Morality,
in the World Championship my senior year.
By that time I was glad that I had been a year at PG and old and got an F company.
What did PG stand for?
You're saying the initials.
That's a good one.
I don't remember.
I haven't heard that.
Did your outfits have nicknames?
E and F?
No, not really.
Like I've heard of Spider D and things like that.
Were they both engineering companies?
Yes, he was an engineer regiment with six companies.
Two battalions, three companies each.
Describe the routine of a typical Monday through Friday day.
Got up at what time, did what, when.
Take me through the whole day.
I'm not real sure about the exact times, but it was getting up pretty damn early.
I'd say we'd be riding out somewhere around 6.30 or 7.
And of course out here with the missile, the units would form up in the straight and march in.
I think the march in was probably somewhere between 7.00, 7.14 probably, maybe 7.30.
The classes started at 8.
So probably about 7 or 15.
Eating then did take a long time.
How did you eat?
You had a job and... Well, I ate in a hell of a hurry.
And I still have a bad habit.
I had a certain table and my normal meal time was less than five minutes.
We'd finish and we'd be ready.
One of the advantages of being in the mess hall, and one of them I got so much trouble with was sophomore.
At that time they had a deal that a freshman couldn't have dessert, which was known as kush, as may have come up to it before.
And being a waiter, unless they kept a sophomore over there and watched them see what I was doing after I finished serving,
They correctly suspected that I was eating cush, because I certainly was.
And that's why they'd had their special sessions with me, just in case that they'd overlooked anything.
So, they were fairly correct in their surmise that I did need special attention.
Alright, so would you get over there early, work, could you go back to the dorm before your 8 o'clock class?
I'd hit the dorm, grab the books and run to the 8 o'clock place.
Incidentally, getting back to, they asked how we got registered on, it was a riot.
They had sections, you know, and they decided what you wanted to do and then you had to go from one place to another to sign up.
half the time when you got there the section that you had chosen to fill in your schedule was full.
So then you had to revise your schedule and go chasing around until you found the section that wasn't full.
And it was really a dogfight to get the classes you wanted at the time you wanted.
Of course everyone wanted the Monday, Wednesday and Friday classes and finally
is the Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday classes that were left.
And if you didn't get your schedule just right and get there in a hurry, you'd end up with some Saturday classes.
Nobody wanted Saturday morning classes.
But a lot of us got them.
By the time I was sophomore year, I got sworn enough to get them under Tuesday, Monday, Monday, Friday.
For the freshmen, I had a bunch of Saturday classes.
Now, of course,
kids can pre-register electronically.
And I'd say it's a damn good thing because 40,000 students against the full 5,000 that we had, our system would actually disintegrate in total confusion.
Alright, in this routine you go to class.
What did you do if you didn't have a class say at 10 o'clock?
What did you do with that off hour?
According to sophomore, you're supposed to come back and be available for details.
According to the way we did it, we went to the library or went to some other freshman's room where they went to Washington.
But we avoided getting back to the dormitory.
Then I'd go to Maslow Street class.
Then after lunch, I'd go to another class store.
And when you didn't have classes in the afternoon, what did you do with your afternoons?
Run details for the upperclassmen or on certain rare occasions, slip off somewhere and take a nap.
Where would you take that nap?
Well, I had a good deal with it.
She was a person who was not in the military and lived off campus.
A friend of mine from my hometown that lived in a little house on this side of the tracks across the
from east or west of Northgate.
It was about three or four hundred yards from my own trip.
And I'd go down to Northgate, go about a quarter mile to Water Bryan, and work my way back up along the railroad track to come into the back part of this.
go take a nap.
That's another thing that they were probably right about by giving them special attention.
Eating cushions, taking naps.
Both very, very bad deals.
The routine of the military drills, when did those occur and where?
Well, we had military science classes and a lot of that occurred during that time.
Also, the sophomores were charged with training the freshmen.
And a lot of that occurred just before the formations, particularly the evening formations that had freshmen out there.
See, I missed that.
Another sin that I was duly castigated for.
And, uh, I think, uh, because of the best of my drills, I never did really, uh, learn to drill well and cadence.
The fact is, uh, Colonel Edcock, and he told me that I was selected to, uh, uh, command the regiment.
I don't want a consideration whether he figured if I was out front by myself, nobody would notice that I was out of step.
We had a long lanky sophomore that had our squad.
At that time we had squires and platoons and squires right, squires left and not the Army drill.
The new Army drill came in during the time of the student.
I was not the most skilled freshman, believe me.
But we suffered through that.
You ate, you went back to your room.
Freshmen, you studied.
If you weren't studying, you'd better be sitting in the desk for the book in front of you.
Freshmen are always tired.
They're always sleeping.
And so one of the great sins was to be caught up to death with the head down on your own sleep.
That usually ends up with
Let's say, in your outfit, who were some special friends that you made?
Well, I still have friends in my outfit.
My roommates, Bryce Allen, who lives out in West Texas, not too far from me.
I love it.
And who I say occasionally.
And another one of my very special friends is down near Hollister.
And they...
Any of the ones in your freshman year, I think, whenever you see them in the freshman year, those two of us have a more timely sense in high school.
All right, describe some of the, you mentioned some of the athletes.
Who were the notable students on the campus then?
Was John Kimbrough a noticeable
Did everybody know who he was?